---
layout: post
title: The Rollercoaster Life of Vijay Shekhar Sharma
date: '2016-09-19 00:30:00'
---


“PayTM”, as intelligent as the name is, the man behind it is no less. Vijay Shekhar Sharma is the winner who never gave up. From not knowing English until the final moments of his graduation to building a brand worth $3 billion, Vijay Sharma went through a rollercoaster of life.

Graduating from school at the age of just 14, he was one intelligent kid. After topping in his school, he went on to study in Delhi College of Engineering. His unilingual disability haunted him about his future in college and he therefore worked upon brushing up his English. With time and bad grades, he lost his interest in studies and eventually left college. He used this down time of ‘not attending college’ by turning into an entrepreneur. He dreamt about studying in Stanford but due to the lack of financial resources and prerequisite linguistic skills, he built a part of Stanford at home by learning to code by himself. This was the turning point. He passed his college and left his job at an MNC to start his own venture. 

Being conned off the first round of investment raised by his venture, by his partners was the ultimate low point of his life. But without giving up, he went on to start a new brand One97 Communications, the parent company of PayTM. Vijay’s vision of entering the Payment Ecosystem through PayTM didn’t convince the board. He wanted to build a legacy with PayTM and his vision was strong. With his personal investment of $2 million from his own equity of One97, PayTM’s first project “Pay through Mobile” was introduced which broke all records of the startup ecosystem. The secret behind the success of PayTM’s first project was the trust between the brand and its customers. Spending 30% of the company’s campaign budget invested in building trust with customers made it easy for the success of PayTM’s next project – Online Wallet. With 30 competitors in market, including MobiKwik, trust is what got them through to the top, believes Vijay. Little is known that PayTM is among those handful brands, worldwide, that raised a funding exceeding several $100 million in Series A investments. The Company’s partially owned by the Alibaba Conglomerate and SAIF. Turning it into a billion dollar brand, Vijay believes that a major share of credits goes to his employees who he refers to as his “teammates”. 

He also believes and quotes that **“A man makes his own destiny.”**