---
layout: post
title: Story of Snapchat
date: '2016-09-12 18:30:00'
---


Every day you SnapChat your friends, update your SnapStory, see other people’s stories, fiddle with

the filters but do you know how it all began?

Initially two of its creators, Evan Spiegel and Reggie Brown started this as a project for one of

Spiegel’s classes. The idea they had was for users to communicate using images that were short

lived. When Spiegel floated this idea among his classmates no one approved of it. But then the third

creator Bobby Murphy was brought into the team to write the source code. They launched it in April

2011 as an IOS-only app under the name ‘Picaboo’. That’s right fellas it wasn’t SnapChat initially.

Then two months later the app was relaunched later under the name ‘SnapChat’. It evolved into a

mix of private messaging and public content, including brand networks, publications, and live events

such as sports and music.

Evan Spiegel is a 26 year old Stanford University dropout with a net worth of $2.1 billion and is also

the CEO of SnapChat. He co founded it with Bobby Murphy who is a 28 year old CTO of SnapChat

with a net worth of $1.8 billion and Reggie Brown. They were classmates in Stanford University when

they started working on Snapchat. They launched it from Evan Spiegel’s living room. But none of them had

any idea that it would be this huge! It had been almost 5 years since the launch of SnapChat and the

only thing that has made it successful is its evolution with time. SnapChat was not very popular

initially, considering that it was an IOS-only app and it didn’t give users a lot of options to

communicate. But then something big happened. They came out with filters, new updates, new

interface and it made the world crazy. SnapChat is now used not just for sending messages to friends

it has now become a portal where even celebrities use it for their promotions and publicities!



**SnapChat is a clear example of Survival of the Fittest!**